I don't think there's anyone out there
that's going to argue with me about the
1980s being the pinnacle of action
figures for kids there just wasn't a
better decade they dominated the toy
aisles there were five major franchises
that carried us through Star Wars he-man
transformers GI Joe and what exited us
out of the decade Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles I'm gonna be honest I wasn't a
big fan of the Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles it was a phenomenon it was all
over the place it was huge but it wasn't
my thing
it was my brother's thing he was two
years younger than me and when he
started collecting the toys I kind of
thought they looked a little toddler II
with all the equipment Baxter left up
there we can turn that fan into a
tracking station and hunt down the
Technodrome but good yeah but how we
gonna get it up there hmm I've given a
lot of thought to why I perceive the
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles line to be
more preschool and at first I thought it
was the scale my brother was really into
he-man when I was into Star Wars and GI
Joe and he-man is about the same scale
as these guys so I looked at it and said
well maybe it has kind of a fisher-price
thing toddlers play with larger toys and
so maybe that's what's coming across but
no the he-man cartoon is very watchable
the Ninja Turtles cartoon on the other
hand is romper room but us turtles
outcasts of society why do we have to
stand alone against the forces of evil
face it man it's the only job we're
qualified for oh yeah you're right well
back to work
but in truth there is something
interesting going on with a scale it
seems like the bigger your toy gets the
less detailed and interesting it becomes
he-man was a lot more detailed than this
but it was fatally simplistic compared
to GI Joe or Star Wars they really put
their time into those toys even though
they got smaller and then if you go down
to something like masks which is really
small
they even had working seat belts in the
cars I've never understood why the
bigger a toy gets shouldn't it be easier
to put the details in there
apparently toy companies don't agree
with me so I wanted to look at the
main flagship of the Ninja Turtles line
which is the turtles party wagon yes
it's called the party wagon which by
today's standards means that it's a nice
rolling hangout for teenagers to get
into do drugs drink have sex awesome
it was originally acquired by them in
the cartoon they got it from Baxter
Stockman who is the evil Mouse ER
scientist and then what they ended up
doing was modifying it Donatello put all
sorts of computers and gadgets and
things in it and made it their Batmobile
the playmates van does not have anything
like that in there nothing if you look
inside it's just an empty tub with some
bench seating on it there's no gadgets
like there are in the show and the show
it looks like it's filled to the gills
with sonar and radar equipment
surveillance technology and here it's
just these plastic bench seats where you
just pile the figures up there aren't
even seatbelts in there like there are
on the GI Joe APC and the construction
is like a play school or fisher-price
toy for toddlers it it doesn't even have
glass in the windshield which every
single action figure vehicle would have
they would have glass in the windows
this doesn't have that so I guess if
they get in a head-on collision Turtles
are just going to be flying through and
hitting the street this turtle shell on
the front is supposed to actually stick
out from the front of the van and here
they just cut an inset into it and then
you slap a sticker in there it's just a
cheap way out another ill-conceived
feature about this van is the arm that's
spring-loaded that comes flying out of
the side of the van when you lift the
roof up to release it and the floor pan
comes out releases these bombs onto the
street and then the turtle is suspended
on this arm by literally a rubber band
that's what came with the toy a rubber
band in the show that arm had a cannon
on the side so the turtle was actually
operating a laser cannon here they
didn't even put that in the turtle just
hangs out there I guess waiting to be
clothesline by a light post in the
television show the turtle van is also
depicted with these massive battleship
cannons on it these big grey howitzers
they're not on the toy either you've
just got these rinky-dink
blasters that are on top of the rearview
mirrors another thing that bothers me is
that there are no access doors to the
driver's seat so the turtles have to
lift the roof and then you kind of have
to jam them in at an angle to get them
to fit in the front seat the vehicle
doesn't even have a dashboard or a
steering wheel so I don't understand how
the turtles are even driving this thing
it's just a big plastic terrarium for
these dumb figures I've talked to a lot
of fans of Ninja Turtles in the
playmates toy line and they defend this
over simplistic design by saying well
that was playmate style back then that's
how they made their toys but I don't buy
it
the reason I don't buy it is because in
1990 they got the rights to the Warren
Beatty Dick Tracy movie and they made
some really great figures in the same
scale and they ended up making vehicles
with them these amazing gangster cars
you set that gangster car made by the
same toy company next to this thing
which was a much bigger franchise which
they should have put all their resources
into because this was their GI Joe this
was their Star Wars you'd be appalled
you'd be amazed at seeing how detailed
the Dick Tracy toy is compared to this
monstrosity I know there are probably
more than a few of you out there saying
hey don't hate on the Ninja Turtles
they're cool and I'm going to tell you I
do think the Ninja Turtles are cool I
really like the 1984 original comic book
and I like these guys
I like their personalities even in the
cartoon there are times where I crack a
smile I grew up with this there are some
positive things about the van too it's
really durable it could survive more
than a few major collisions with the
family dog or brick wall better than any
GI Joe vehicle or transformer I've ever
had come on April let's wrap this baby
up and motivate down the stage
relax April will have gravity on our
side that is just what scares me
everyone